add examples for UniFi Protect integration events (#36029)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/unifiprotect.markdown

### Example Notification Automation with Video

```yaml
alias: "Security: Camera Motion Notification"
description: "Sends a notification with video upon motion detection."
triggers:
  - entity_id:
      - binary_sensor.g5_bullet_motion # Replace with your camera entity
    trigger: state
    from: "on"
    to: "off"
actions:
  - data:
      message: "Motion detected at Camera XXX"
      data:
        image: >-
          {% raw %}/api/unifiprotect/thumbnail/{{ config_entry_id(trigger.entity_id) }}/{{ trigger.from_state.attributes.event_id }}{% endraw %}
        video: >-
          {% raw %}/api/unifiprotect/video/{{ config_entry_id(trigger.entity_id) }}/{{ trigger.from_state.attributes.event_id }}{% endraw %}
    action: notify.mobile_app_your_device # Replace with your notification target
mode: single
max_exceeded: silent
```

> It's important to wait for the motion sensor to change from `on` to `off` before sending the notification. This ensures that the event has ended and the video is accessible; otherwise, you may get an error instead of the video link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waiting for the motion sensor to change from `on` to `off` before sending the notification is essential. Waiting ensures that the event has ended and the video is accessible; otherwise, you may get an error instead of the video link.
```

- **Description**: This event is triggered when an NFC card is scanned at a compatible device (e.g., a smart doorbell). It contains information such as the `nfc_id` of the scanned card.

#### Example G4 Doorbell NFC Scanned Automation

```yaml
alias: G4 Doorbell NFC Scanned Automation
description: >-
  Automation that triggers when a specific NFC card is scanned on the G4
  Doorbell Pro
triggers:
  - event_type: state_changed
    event_data:
      entity_id: event.g4_doorbell_pro_poe_nfc  # Replace with your doorbell entity
    trigger: event
conditions:
  - condition: template
    value_template: >
      {% raw %}{{ 
         trigger.event.data.new_state is not none and
         trigger.event.data.new_state.attributes.event_type == 'scanned' and
         trigger.event.data.new_state.attributes.nfc_id in ['ABCDEF1234', 'OTHER_ALLOWED_ID']
       }}{% endraw %}
actions:
  - data:
      message: >-
        {% raw %}The NFC card with ID {{ trigger.event.data.new_state.attributes.nfc_id }} has been scanned at the doorbell.{% endraw %}
      title: NFC Scan Notification
    action: notify.mobile_app_your_device # Replace with your notification target
```

**Warning:**

> When processing NFC scans, always validate the scanned ID. The scan event is also triggered by unknown NFC cards. Additionally, this event was developed using third-party cards, as the developer did not have access to official UniFi cards at the time. With third-party cards, the scan relies on the card's serial number. While this approach is not uncommon, it is important to note that the card's serial number is generally not considered a secure identifier and can be duplicated relatively easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When processing NFC scans, always validate the scanned ID. Unknown NFC cards also trigger the scan event. Additionally, this event was developed using third-party cards, as the developer did not have access to official UniFi cards at the time. With third-party cards, the scan relies on the card's serial number. While this approach is not uncommon, it is essential to note that the card's serial number is generally not considered a secure identifier and can be duplicated relatively easily.
```

I also tested it with third party cards (used a Telsa key card) 🤣

Author: @bdraco Haha, I tested it with "Mifare Classic 1k" Clones, specifically cards designed for this purpose that allow you to overwrite the normally non-writable sector 0, including the serial number, to clone cards. :D I still had some of those lying around here, so I quickly checked with the Flipper to see if the card's UUID is what comes through the API—and that's exactly what it was.

#### Example G4 Doorbell Fingerprint Identified Automation

```yaml
alias: G4 Doorbell Fingerprint Identified Automation
description: Automation that triggers when a fingerprint is successfully identified on the G4 Doorbell Pro
trigger:
  - platform: event
    event_type: state_changed
    event_data:
      entity_id: event.g4_doorbell_pro_poe_fingerprint # Replace with your doorbell entity
condition:
  - condition: template
    value_template: >
      {% raw %}{{ 
         trigger.event.data.new_state is not none and
         trigger.event.data.new_state.attributes.event_type == 'identified' and
         (trigger.event.data.new_state.attributes.ulp_id|default('')) != '' and
         trigger.event.data.new_state.attributes.ulp_id in ['ALLOWED_ID1', 'ALLOWED_ID2']
       }}{% endraw %}
action:
  - service: notify.mobile_app_your_device # Replace with your notification target
    data:
      {% raw %}message: "Fingerprint identified with ID: {{ trigger.event.data.new_state.attributes.ulp_id }}"{% endraw %}
      title: "Fingerprint Scan Notification"
```

**Warning:**

> Similar to NFC, an event is triggered both when a fingerprint is recognized and when it is not recognized. However, unlike NFC, at the time of implementation, no fingerprint ID is included in the event if the fingerprint is unknown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to NFC, an event is triggered when a fingerprint is recognized and not recognized. However, unlike NFC, at the time of implementation, no fingerprint ID is included in the event if the fingerprint is unknown.
```
